//react is a js library.react cant directly connect to database it is possible through api only.
// react uses virtual dom--------srf utna hi load hogi jitna change hua hai...released in 2013

//react js can be used without npm node by using only cdn(content delievery network).

//npm is a tool that is used to install packages.Npx is atool that is used to execute packages..npm alternative is yarn which is of facebook

//change package.json and then use install uninstall to do anything.

//use run while using custom commands

//component---A piece of code that can reuse..powerful than functions.........many types----functional class HOC pure controlled uncontrolled

we can also define components inside components but then that component must be used inside it parents..

React nad angular can be used parallely.

JSX means javascriptXML.

React can be used without jsx but its complicated.
ex--React.createlement

jsx can be used without js

state is a object which stores data.component understands very well that state has been updated but it cant understand variables are updated or not.

it is because of react working method.It always re renders when there is a change in state...state can always be used inside component(but there is a way)

State is public.

props are parameters send to components.

usestate cant be used in class components

props can always be changed from the parent component sender not receiver

function can also be sent as state and this is called lifting up state

we can html as props...this.props.children for cc and props.children

we can also send data without form tag

React lifecycle has three states(phases)----

Mount,update,unmount

Life cycle method runs when component is loaded,component is Updated,component is Removed.

We cant use lcm directly in fc...it can be implemented with hook.constructor is a first life cycle method.

super calls the parent constructor of Component class.

Lifecycle will run again in any scenario.

Do no call api in constructor.Constructor hmesha phle chlta hai so state whi define kro taaki html load hone se phle state bn jaye but api call mt kro vrna speed gir jayegi as data comes slow from api.Api call in componentDidMount

Render life cycle method gets called everytime when props/states are changed. 

props can also be used in constructor.

componentDidMount--------no effect of state and props...it is called after html(dom) is ready.It is used for api.Jo chizo ki html pr dependency rehti hai unko krwaenge bd m iski help se.ex-----hide show krna nhai but html abhi ready hi nhi h tb kraenge use

agr state change hui toh cdm nhi chlega kyunki vo bss html k load hone k bd hi chlega

ComponentdidUpdate tbhi chlega jb koi state update hogi ya props update honge.phle render fr CDU...if we update state in cdu it will go in infinite loop so it will use with condition only........Api call ho skti hai condition k sth

Dont update state in cdu also.

shouldComponentUpdate mjhe kuch update krna hai ya nhi mtlb yeh puchta hai ki kya update krana hai...jb state ya prop update honge tbhi chlega yeh. By default It  stop rendering.agar return true bai tbhi state update hogi

componentWillUnmount needs two component.jb bhi component dom se remove krte hai css remove nhi tb component call hoga.Yeh dom k htne se just phle call hota hai

SCU phle call hoga fr CDU

jha hmara componentwill unmount hai bss vo call hoga

With hooks we can use class components features in functional components such as state life cycle pure component etc.

useEffect is the combination of three lcm componentDidMount ComponentdidUpdate and componentWillUnmount.

Hooks cant be used in class component

any css can be used together

we use map above loops to traverse bcoz return statement dont support loops

react uses key in array or list to identify better











